We'll go now to our practical demonstration.
We have started with some untested flight management application
and we have understood its general functionality.
We'll add tests first on the Passenger class using JUnit5 and
looking for the verification of its current behavior.
We'll include here the creation of a passenger,
the restrictions that an identifier and the country code must fulfill,
the behavior of individual methods.
We go back to our flights management application having the intention to
provide unit tests for the existing functionality.
Remind that the application is composed of the following classes,
passenger described by an identifier, a name,
and a country code.
The identifier kept inside the company is following the same
format as the SSN in the United States.
We have a constructor with all the three parameters, getters, and setters.
Flight described by flightNumber, the number of places,
the number of passengers, its origin and destination,
and the flying state, and the Main class,
just to show some action.
We create the passenger and record it to the system.
We create the flight, set its origin and destination,
sell a ticket for it, make it take off and land.
And we follow the behavior.
It is time now to start the unit testing based on the
business logic that we have understood.
In order to be able to move to unit testing,
the first thing to be done is to add the JUnit5 dependencies into the POM file.
We have added these two dependencies and we're also importing the changes.
Then we'll move to the test Java folder and create here the package,
com.Pluralsight .test_pyramid_strategy .airport.
We'll also create the new PassengerTest class.
It is our first class for unit testing.
We'll write our first simple test.
We create the passenger object and we verify that it is not null.
We run a test and see that it is green.
We have created a passenger and checked the existence.
Next, we would like to introduce the possibility to measure the code coverage.
In order to do this, we'll insert the JaCoCo plugin to the Maven configuration.
To effectively measure the code coverage,
we run mvn test from the command prompt.
This will generate an index.html file where we'll be able to take a
look at the code coverage at the level of package,
classes, and individual constructors and methods.
For now, we see that the test covers only the constructor of passenger.
We would like now to check the constraints that we have mentioned
about remember the identifier kept inside a company is following the
same format as the SSN in the United States.
If the customer is a US citizen, we assign the SSN itself.
If he or she is not a US citizen,
we'll assign an identifier that is used only inside the company,
but that follows the same rules.
Social security numbers are nine-digit numbers in the format
AAA-GG-SSSS with the following restrictions.
The first three digits cannot be 000, 666, or between 900 and 999.
Digits 4 and 5 are called the group number and range from 01 to 99.
The last 4 digits are serial numbers from 0001 to 9999.
To validate all of our three rows, we'll use a regular expression.
We'll write a test that changes the declaration of a passenger
with an invalid SSN will throw an exception.
We have chosen an invalid SSN and we're explicitly
saying that we're expecting an exception.
If we run now the tests, this test invalid SSN will fail.
This means that the SSN verification was not there.
Even if the company has announced this policy for providing identifiers,
even if we have run some small program to use the existing classes,
the verification was not made.
This has only been exposed when starting with the unit tests.
One of the principles of TDD, test-driven development,
states that when implementing a new functionality,
you could first write the test to check it.
The test is expected to fail.
If the test succeeds,
it means that either it is not a good one or that the
functionality is already there, somehow hidden.
Now,
we have received an already implemented application not tested and we have
uncovered some malfunction when starting to write unit tests.
Let's fix this.
This is the regular expression that we are going to use and this
is the verification inside the constructor.
Let's run the tests again.
The tests run fine now.
We have successfully implemented the SSN verification.
To measure the code coverage, we run mvn test from the command prompt.
Into the index.html file,
we'll be able to take a look at the code coverage at the level of package,
classes, and individual constructors and methods.
We see that the tests still cover only the constructor of passenger,
but we include the throwing of the runtime exception that we have just added.
We would like to check more of the constraints that are
imposed for the creation of a passenger.
The country code must be among the existing countries as
defined by ISO2 and the program should not allow the
introduction of some wrong codes.
We'll write a test that checks that the creation of a passenger with
an invalid country code will throw an exception.
GJ is an invalid country code according to ISO2 and
we are expecting an exception.
If we run the test now, it will be red.
This means that the country code verification was not there.
This has only been exposed when starting with the unit tests.
Let's fix this.
The list of the valid country codes is provided by calling
Locale.getISOCountries and we're adding this restriction
when creating a passenger.
We run the tests again.
The tests are green.
This means that we have successfully introduced the country verification.
We see that we have provided setters for the identifier and country code fields,
so as long as it is possible to change these fields,
we should check them to follow the same
restrictions that we have presented above.
We'll write a test that checks that setting an invalid SSN
for a passenger will throw an exception.
We are creating a passenger with a valid identifier and
then we are changing it to an invalid one.
We run all the tests and it is failing.
This means that the SSN verification is not yet made into the setter.
Let's add it here.
It is the same condition like inside the constructor.
We run the test again and it is succeeding.
Let's insert the test that is also checking a valid SSN.
We should check both valid and invalid input values.
We'll re-run the test and it is succeeding.
We'll also write the test that checks that setting an invalid
country code for a passenger will throw an exception.
We are creating a passenger with a valid country code and
then we are changing it to an invalid one.
We run the test and it is red.
This means that the country code verification is not yet made into the setter.
The condition is the same like in the case of a constructor.
We re-run the test and it is green.
Let's insert a test that is also setting a valid country code.
As we were saying, we should check both valid and invalid input values.
We re-run the tests and they are running fine.
We would like to measure the code coverage again and we
run mvn test from the command prompt.
Into the index.html file,
we'll be able to take a look at the code coverage at the level of the package,
at the level of the classes,
and at the level of individual constructors and methods.
We see that there are a few methods left from the
Passenger class that haven't been tested yet.
We'll focus our next effort on this matter.
Let's write a test that will also invoke the setName,
getName, recordToSystem, and ToString methods and check some functionality.
We'll call it testPassengerToString,
but we'll make sure to pass through all remaining methods.
In particular, for our convenience,
we'll simply call the recordToSystem method just to cover it.
We presume that we have a passenger that has been wrongly recorded
as John Smith and his real name is John Brown.
We use the setter in order to do this and they are set on
the functionality of the ToString method.
Let's run the tests.
The tests are running fine.
We would like to measure the code coverage again and we
run mvn test from the command prompt.
Into the index.html file,
we'll be able to take a look at the code coverage and the level
of the package and the level of the classes,
and individual constructors and methods.
We see that we have fully covered the Passenger class with this. We'll move to the next class to test it.